[THEME MUSIC]
There's something
about the moment
that you lose touch with the
earth-- you know, the moment
that your feet lift
off the ground,
there's just this instant
feeling of joy and surprise.
That feeling of vertigo--
it's not the fear of falling.
It's the fear of
your deep desire
to want to throw
yourself into the freedom
of the feeling of falling.
I don't like standing on a
cliff if I'm not anchored in.
As soon as I'm anchored in
and I understand the system,
I'm free.
When you take gravity and
you just play with it,
and you find ways to soften
it-- to dance on walls--
to dance on cliff faces.
When you're dancing on a cliff
and a peregrine falcon flies by
and eyes you, you're
transported into a place where
you no longer feel the
ache of your harness
and you've become the
jump that you're doing.
I decided to go and sort of
dive off the cliff of fear.
And once that happened, I
was able to find the dance.
I love to climb
mountains-- ice climb.
And that's pretty wild, I
guess, for a blind person.
I mean, being a blind mountain
climber is sort of like being
a Jamaican bobsledder.
You know, the words don't
necessarily go together.
I'm scanning my
tools up the ice.
And I'm trying to use
the end of my tools
as though they are
extensions of my hands.
But I'm actually feeling through
the metal picks of my tools.
And when I find something
I think is a good hit,
I'll just tap it.
And I'll listen to the sound.
And if it's a good
sound, then I'll swing.
I think, um, sometimes
that fear of reaching out
into the unknown
paralyzes people
to the point where they just
decide not to reach out at all.
And for me, all the great
things that have ever come to me
have come through reaching
out into that unknown.
And-- and, uh-- and
I think life is just
sort of an ongoing
process of reaching out
into the darkness when
you-- you really don't
know what you're going to find.
You know, you can't
really have fear.
Basically, fear
causes hesitation.
Hesitation will make your
worst fears come true.
You find yourself getting to a
point where you just, sort of,
let go.
And it almost feels
easy and real natural.
It always seems like
I'm sort of precariously
balanced between fear and hope.
You have to kind of walk
right in the middle.